v4.4
------------

What’s new
~~~~~~~~~~


* Update of remote IO objects for S3, WebDav and XRootd.
  * Used by EOS to communicate with external endpoints
  Allows EOS to create filesystems whose storage is residing at a remote endpoint, instead of a local disk.
* Implementation of logical path translation.
  * So far, the path of every EOS file (so called 'physical path') is generated from the File Id of that file within the namespace. This feature allows EOS to store files having their physical location the same as their logical location in the namespace. E.g.: /eos/test/myfile on filesystem 1 will be stored at /<filesystem1_basepath>/eos/test/myfile 
  * The logical path information is stored as file extended attributes within the EOS namespace
  * Path translation utility class, to help deciphering paths for both cases
* Filesystem config options: s3credentials and logicalpath 
  * Two new filesystem config options were added.
  * s3credentals=<accesskey>:<secretkey> Sets the S3 access credentials for this filesystem
  * logicalpath=1|0 Flag to indicate whether this filesystem uses logical path or not
  * S3 settings can be configured FST-wide, via environment variables or on a filesystem-by-filesystem basis, via `fs config`
* Implementation of file adoption
  * Allows scanning an endpoint accessible by a filesystem and import all the discovered files into the EOS namespace
  * Management of these files, upon importation, can be done fully through EOS
  * A new command to trigger the file adoption is available, called `fs import`. It offers the `fs import start` command to trigger the import process. When triggered, an UUID is associated with the operation. The `fs import query <id>` command can be used to check the status of an on-going import operation
* External storage tests
  * External storage test script is provided to test the file adoption functionality
  * A new Gitlab pipeline job is set up to run this script on every commit
* Documentation
  * Documentation for logical path and import functionality are provided on the eos-docs website


List of RfCs
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* `XSD-61 <https://jira.extreme-datacloud.eu/browse/XSD-61>`_ - Identity Forwarding plugin between XCache and EOS
* `XSD-62 <https://jira.extreme-datacloud.eu/browse/XSD-62>`_ - VOMS integration for XCache testbed
* `XSD-63 <https://jira.extreme-datacloud.eu/browse/XSD-63>`_ - VOMS security extractor for XrdHttp
* `XSD-73 <https://jira.extreme-datacloud.eu/browse/XSD-73>`_ - File traversal over HTTP
* `XSD-74 <https://jira.extreme-datacloud.eu/browse/XSD-74>`_ - Mechanism to import a file into the EOS namespace
* `XSD-75 <https://jira.extreme-datacloud.eu/browse/XSD-75>`_ - Allow EOS to use logical path
* `XSD-76 <https://jira.extreme-datacloud.eu/browse/XSD-76>`_ - System tests for adoption of external storage/files
* `XSD-147 <https://jira.extreme-datacloud.eu/browse/XSD-147>`_ - Implement status query of import procedure

Known Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* N/A

List of Artifacts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* CentOS-7 RPMS
   * in group `applications/file <http://repo.indigo-datacloud.eu/repository/xdc/production/1/centos7/x86_64/base/repoview/applications.file.group.html>`_

    * eos-archive - The EOS archive daemon
    * eos-cleanup - The EOS test package
    * eos-client - The EOS shell client
    * eos-fuse - The new EOS fuse client
    * eos-fuse-core - The EOS fuse client
    * eos-fuse-sysv - The EOS fuse client
    * eos-fusex - The new EOS fuse client
    * eos-fusex-core - The new EOS fuse client
    * eos-fusex-selinux - The new EOS fuse client selinux configuration
    * eos-server - The EOS server installation
    * eos-srm - The EOS srm script package for checksumming and space
    * eos-test - The EOS test package
    * eos-testkeytab - The EOS testkeytab package


  * and in `applications/internet <http://repo.indigo-datacloud.eu/repository/xdc/production/1/centos7/x86_64/base/repoview/applications.internet.group.html>`_

      * eos-admin-gui - Web Interface for EOS administration 
